# CyclicCicadas
This was a project for my Data Visualization class. The project was to visualize cyclic data, and I thought cicadas are an interesting instance of something cyclic, since some cicadas have 13 year cycles, and others have 17 year cycles. I got the data from [the Magicicada Database](http://hydrodictyon.eeb.uconn.edu/projects/cicada/databases/magicicada/magi_search.php) by using the web interface to make a series of queries to get all the data I needed, and for each query, scraping the webpage displaying the results. However, because there was so much data, I compacted the data so that each row was represented with fourteen ASCII characters (two for each of the seven fields available), and used a separate file to store what each of those two character ASCII codes stood for. I only used data from the latest 13 years (for 13 year-cycle cicadas) and the latest 17 years (for 17 year-cycle cicadas) of data that was available, as this data had the most records and was the most consistent of any time period, and using more than one cycle of data would add bias. Using this data, I extrapolated the "expected" number of cicadas in a U.S. state during each year starting at 2000, and displayed this on an SVG map using color (a darker red means a higher number of cicadas in that state). Each year's map displays for a second, so the visualization repeats every 13 * 17 seconds. I used Processing functions to read the SVG file and color the shapes. The SVG map is an earlier revision of the map found [here](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Blank_US_Map.svg).

## Licenses
Only the source code `CyclicCicadas.pde` is under the MIT license that's in the `LICENSE` file. Legal information about the data and map can be found at their respective links above.
